fell unconscious at my feet.
And the headlinesman came over
and asked, what's wrong with him?
In my naivete about medical matters, I said, I
don't know. I think he's knocked down.
The official then made the first mistake. By
rolling. This lifeless body over. And we could see
no color in his eyes. He then signaled for some
players to come from the sideline. And carry
himple. Off the field of play, which they did
without a stretcher.
He regained consciousness before the game was
over. but could not move his arms and legs.
Saturday morning, back in Orange, we learned that
his spinal cord had been broken just below the base
of his neck, and he died Monday. An unforgettable
lesson about important things in life and its
meaning.
In track, I tried to be a sprinter and ran on the
relay teams. But again, we were not very
outstanding. When commencement came, I believe
that I was third in the class. Our valedictorian,
Charles McCormick, set some academic
achievement marks that probably still are
unbroken. His average was astonishingly high.
His great handicap was that he had no personality.
If you gave him the material to memorize, he could
do so quickly and hand it back to you verbally or in
writing. But if you ask him to work with people,
to understand an athletic event,
or be friendly. He did not know how to do that. The
number two person in the class, Charles Anderson,
didn't go to college because his family owned many
hundreds of rice land under which there was some
nice oily liquid.
For me, the choice was Austin College. The
reverend Dr. Drake had encouraged me to consider
it
one day in a conversation at church.
Then at summer church camp,
before my senior year in high school, there were a
number of people who spoke highly of Austin
College.
And we went, mother and dad took me there to visit
the day after Christmas in 1947. Being
naive about such matters, it did not occur to us
that colleges closed down a great deal, closed
down during the Christmas break. We entered what
seemed to be a very large main building. and soon
encountered what I thought was an old guy in the
hallway. We asked if he could help us find the
president's office and he invited us to follow him
and he would lead us there. We walked down the
hallway, we walked to the left of the and
he walked behind the president's desk and
introduced himself as Edward B. Grant,
G-U-E-R-R-A-N-T,
who was, in fact, the president. His cordial
welcome attracted our confident
And so I headed in that direction.
A few months later in the summer of 1948. While
visiting grandparents.
I went to Sherman. Introduce myself to the
football coach.
Whose name I cannot remember at this moment.
who turned out to have been the captain of the last
Newt Rockne, K-N-U-T-E, R-O-C-K-N-E, that last
Newt Rockne team at Notre Dame.
I went up for early practice for the Austin College
Kangaroos
and was delighted to be on that campus. From the
first day until the present, it has seemed that for
this student, Austin College was just right. A
comparatively small liberal arts college,
which provided a
lot of direct personal attention to each student.
and real development, their personality and
talent.
I lived in what we called Kangaroo Manor,
a World War II one-story barrack building which
had been moved to the campus as a residence for
members Of the athletic squad of the AC athletic
squad.
Good fortune came my way and having a history
course.
From Henry M Sidner, SYDNOR.
member of an old Virginia Presbyterian family
who was in his first year of service at Austin
College, having served in the public school
system of West Virginia for a number of years.
Mr. Sedner's manner made a lifetime shaping
impact And also I became a close friend of the older
Sidner son, Ned.
Within the next two and a half years, I got to visit
the Sidner home, two blocks south of the campus,
and was impressed that there were books on the
shelves and art on the walls. Mrs. Sidner seemed to
be a remarkably talented cook, and I ate food that I
had never seen before. They went birdwatching,
which at first seemed to me to be a waste of time.
But then that effort soon imparted a greater
interest in and knowledge of wildlife.
My
Extracurricular activities during those years
included work on the campus paper
based on having worked, having been a member of the
staff of the high school paper, the Tiger
Scratches, and the Stark High Yearbook, the
Orange Peel.
I was in the kangaroo band for a time.
Also, and enjoyed the opportunity to be included
in many activities.
The realities of the world changed
the realities of the world became
more instant
early in 1950
when Ned Sidner and I sat behind his father and
Jemmy Story, S-T-O-R-E-Y,
a member of the religion faculty and a dear friend
of the Sidners.
At a baseball game
where Chuck Taylor, representing the Converse
Shoe Company,
One of the old one of the original Boston Celtics
gave us an exhibition of basketball. Soon after
the game that event was over. Mr Sidner had a heart
attack and died in a few hours. Within a few weeks,
Mrs Sidner asked me if I would like to come and rent a
room at their house since she was in need of cash. I
did and that cemented more deeply my respect for
that family and tied me more closely to the dream of
becoming a college faculty member.
Far back in the trailer house days, I had concocted
a dream of going to West Point, possibly because
Glenn Davis and Doc Blanchard had led the Army
football teams to some memorable winning
streaks, to a memorable winning streak during the
war.
I wrote to the Congressman and told him of my dream
to go to West Point
using writing and pencil on notebook paper
without my parents' knowledge.
He responded by telling me that I would need to get a
little older and become prepared for the for the
great competition to go to the Military Academy.
Thus, I should take
the college preparatory courses and send him my
grades at the end of each semester.
With that encouragement, I quietly proceeded
with that task.
applied for the appointment my senior in high
school and was identified as an alternate
appointee if the principal one of the principals
turned down he since i was 17 since my 17th birthday
occurred in the spring of my senior year he
suggested that i go on to college take a full
college prep year, and then, if I did well, he would
appoint me the following year. As we proceeded
with those realities, I was to go to Fort Sam
Houston, take a final exam to ensure that I would be
qualified for the West Point
And mention was made of my taking an oath. Of eight
years service.
When I raised the question that West Point was only
a four year institution.
I received the shocking response that after West
Point I would be required to serve four years of
active duty.
Quickly, I knew that I did not want to do that. And so
that. dream vanished instantly
it must have been paragraph it must have been the
influence of mr sidner and a few others that turned
me toward the hope of being a college faculty
member
enjoying history and literature courses
Equally,
I majored in history and English,
taking a lot of American history
and American literature courses.
Because the tuition at Austin College The tuition
fee
required that everyone pay full tuition if they
took 12 hours or more,
but it allowed anyone who paid that fee to take as
many hours as they wanted. I took an overload
almost every semester.
And as I entered my fourth year at the college,
was nearing graduation.
Mr. Sidner had been replaced by another
teacher who touched my life.
markedly, Elmer Flaccus.
Professor Flaccus was a notable, quote,
character because of his idiosyncrasies, sense
of humor, and occasional displays of
disorganization.
On the other hand, he was a very sensitive,
helpful, and generous person.
At one in one long conversation when I indicated to
him my goal. My dream of being a college faculty
member. But. Being with. Out. Any real knowledge
of what it might. Take in time. Ability and
expenditures. To get a PhD. He suggested that I
finish my undergraduate degree the first
semester of my senior year and then stay at Austin
College that spring
and begin work on a master's degree, which
required 24 course hours and six hours of credit
for the thesis.
I took 18 hours that semester.
And he helped me try to locate employment in the
Sherman area for the 1952-53 year, while I
completed the other master's courses at night and
Saturdays. That opportunity came at Denison High
School. So for my fifth year out of high school, I
lived in Luckett Hall, the AC Dramatory, the first
semester, and then rented a room from the Story
family the second semester.
An arrangement which allowed me to behave like a
true professional in the daytime. but to return to
undergraduate events at night and on weekends.
My teaching load at the high school was four
sophomore level classes in Western
Civilization. a ninth grade literature class,
and a ninth grade homeroom.
The principal,
a very highly regarded leader, Truman Smith,
asked me what I was taking on Monday nights. When I
indicated I had not yet gotten my schedule, he
suggested I schedule something on Monday nights
because the Denison High School PTA met that
evening and they expected every faculty member to
be present, but that if I had a course that night,
they would certainly forgive my absence. In
addition, he urged me not to be seen attending any
movie in Denison on Sunday evening because many
conservatives in that town believed that such
attendance was a violation of the Sabbath.
He also added, quote, These folks wouldn't care if
you went to the picture show in Sherman because
most Denison people believe that town is filled
with sand anyway.
Period, paragraph.
Early in 1953, I came back from work at Denison High
one afternoon. and was chatting with a buddy who
was president of the AC student body that year, Jim
Wilson.
An English major, he also was dreaming of becoming
a college faculty member, so I asked him where he
thought he was going to graduate school. When he
indicated that his choice was Rice, I tried to make
him aware that Rice did not offer.
degrees in the humanities and social sciences
since all it did was quote engineering,
architecture, and the natural sciences.
He quickly grabbed a catalog,
reaffirmed the availability of English, and then
after turning a few more pages,
informed me that Rice even offered a PhD in
history. Paragraph. Knowing that Rice was
totally tuition free for all students, I quickly
asked for the catalog and verified the accuracy of
his statement about the availability of history.
In a few moments, I made my way to the Luckin Hall
doorway of the Dean of Students, Rollin Montfort
Rolf, R-O-L-F-E, M-O-N-T-F-O-R-D,
R-O-L-L-I-N, Rollin Montfort Rolf.
Dean Rolf was to most of us a Truly distinctive
individual. Cadaverously thin.
Devoid, as far as we were aware, of much
personality.
We usually called him the skeleton.
I quickly asked him if he would be willing to write
me and I asked if he had if it was true that he had gone
to rice.
He responded affirmatively and added that he had
been president of first. Graduating class there
in 1916. Then I asked if he would write a letter of
recommendation in my behalf.
A quiet smile was his response. and a bit of head
shake, and he indicated no.
Quote, no.
I don't think I should. Let me just write a couple of
notes to some old friends.
Assuming that he had remembered some of my
mischief and pranks as an undergraduate,
I feared that I might not have much chance to get in.
But within a few days I received an affirmative
acceptance.
And later that fall learned that the two quote
friends that he had contacted were named McCann,
M-C-C-A-N-N, and McCance, M-C-C-A-N-T-S, his
classmates, one of whom was the chairman of the
Graduate Admissions Committee and the other the
vice chairman.
The realities of the war had almost complicated,
had complicated this routine a bit.
The Korean War began in the summer of 1950 at the end
of my sophomore year.
As the fall semester began, it seemed that the
American troops were winning that conflict And
there was even a promise that, quote, the boys will
be home by Christmas. When that season came,
however, the Red Chinese had joined the attack on
the Americans and the South Koreans, and
everything seemed bleak.
Many college males did not even return after the
Christmas holidays.
and I, being very draftable, soon joined the Naval
Reserve there in Sherman.
In the spring of that year at Denison High School, I
received a notice to report for the draft on May 15,
1953. I
sought the advice of the Naval Reserve
Chief Petty Officer.
And he informed me that, he made me aware of the fact
that I would have an automatic one year delay in
reporting for active duty because of my having
joined the Naval Reserve in January of 1951. And
I told him that I had been admitted to Rice and I sure
would like to finish that next year with that
delay. He then suggested that I write to the draft
board in Orange and ask for a one month delay in
order to finish the year at Denison High School,
the 1952-53 year at Denison High School. If they
granted that month delay, then I could finish,
would have a year delay from that date.
Thankfully, the Orange Draft Board did so, and so I
went on to Rice.
Luckily, Jim Wilson joined me, and we rented a room
at 410 Emerson
from a delightful lady who was the grandmother of
one of our coed friends at Austin College.
Her house in an older section of town was a very
comfortable place.
And for $30 a month, we had a place to sleep and could
put a few items in the refrigerator and cook on a hot
plate.
The courses at Rice were truly demanding.
Quickly, I learned that Rice students were well
prepared But I survived the year
and then went off to the Navy in Charleston.
That experience was truly unforgettable.
Now we're going to cease.
Now back after an interruption for gas.